[Music]
hey guess what if you're looking for a
surefire way to annoy your cat
use a cat face filter your pet's
reaction to this innocent joke may be
surprising
some run away while others try to figure
out what's going on
but why are cats so confused by this
simple trick
well to answer this question we first
need to understand
how cats see us do they understand the
difference between a person's face and
their own
what if they simply see us as other big
weird-looking cats
or maybe we're just food and scratch
dispensers
it's that way in my house cats divide
every creature they meet
into three groups prey predators and
everyone else who they see as other cats
to them a person is just another big cat
who can also be an ally that supplies
them with food and shelter
so what happens when we use a cat filter
that makes us look like weird cat humans
why are cats sometimes frightened by
this transformation
well maybe it's because cats think the
filter reveals our true nature
imagine your cat uses a human filter
of course they can't use a nap but let's
just pretend
that your cat has suddenly changed its
body stays the same
but what's with its face it looks like a
strange furry little creature with a
human face
at the very least you would be puzzled
that's exactly what happens when a cat
sees a human
wearing a cat filter even though they
perceive us
as other cats they're used to our usual
appearance
not all cats are terrified of the cat
filter image though
some of them want to look it up and down
trying to figure out what happened
they don't know they're looking at a
phone screen they're trying to
understand where the real person is
and why there's this strange creature
with an enormous cat head but
do cats even know what they look like
themselves
how do they perceive their own
reflections in the mirror
if you put a mirror in front of a cat it
would assume that its reflection
is another cat cats fail something
called a mirror test
the technique is pretty simple first a
dot of red dye is put on
part of an animal's body which you can't
normally see on its face or ears for
example
then the animal sees its reflection in
the mirror if the animal is curious
about the mark and tries to touch it
then it perceives the image in the
mirror as itself
now that sounds easy for us but very few
species
actually pass this test among those who
have
are dolphins whales bonibos orangutans
chimpanzees
asian elephants eurasian magpies
pigeons the cleaner rasa fish and even
ants
humans can pass the mirror test only
from the age of two
children younger than this react to the
reflection as if seeing another child
when they get older they begin to
understand that they're looking
at themselves the idea for this test
came from one funny incident
involving charles darwin and an
orangutan
the famous biologist once visited london
zoo
and saw one of these apes become really
angry after a zoo keeper teased it with
an apple
he refused to give the oranatan the food
and the animal
threw herself on her back kicked and
cried precisely like a naughty child
according to darwin after the incident
darwin realized that orangutans and
other animals might have their own
unique experiences and feelings
that aren't shared with anybody else
darwin also watched the apes staring at
the mirror
and noticed that it recognized its own
reflection
more than a hundred years later an
american psychologist named gordon
gallup jr
proposed measuring animals
self-awareness with the mirror test
if an animal can recognize its
reflection then it understands that
it's different from the rest of the
world so in other words
these creatures have self-awareness this
is essential for living in a society
animals that are self-aware have higher
levels of empathy
and can cooperate with others what else
do we know about how cats see the world
well their vision is different from ours
for example
cats can't detect different shades of
color as well as humans
they see things in blue and green so
colors like red yellow and pink
may be confusing for them but at the
same time
our fluffy pets can distinguish a large
number of shades of grey
like uh 50 cat's huge eyes develop out
of a need to hunt in low light
conditions
however an eye this size makes it
difficult for them to constantly refocus
from close objects to distant objects
and vice versa
experts say that for this reason a cat's
site adjusts to its environment
street cats are usually farsighted and
most domestic ones are nearsighted
maybe they could use bifocals why can
cats see much better in the dark than us
the reason is the tapitum lucidum which
is something we don't have in our eyes
this is a layer in a cat's eye that
reflects the light passing through the
retina
back into the eye this built-in
reflector
captures every little bit of light and
increases the sensitivity of the cat's
vision by 44
thanks to this cats can see just fine
using six times less light than people
need
cats also have a wider field of view
than people do
they enjoy about 200 degree vision
compared to our
180 degrees this helps cats to navigate
and detect the distance to objects
accurately and very quickly a cat's
vision is binocular
this allows them to see
three-dimensional objects this is one of
the few things we have in common
did you know that cats have a third
eyelid they do
the nictitating membrane is a thin layer
that covers their eye from the side
thanks to this third eyelid cats don't
need to blink all the time like we do
the membrane distributes tears on the
surface of the eye
keeping it well lubricated it also
removes foreign particles from the eye
normally you can see this membrane only
when the cat blinks
if it's constantly visible in the corner
of the cat's eye
it can mean that your pet is sick but
the cat's strongest sense
is its sense of smell it's about 14
times stronger than a human being's
although significantly weaker than a
dog's
the cat has 200 million odor sensitive
smells
this sense of smell helps cats to find
food meet a partner
protect themselves from enemies navigate
their surroundings
and find their marked territory so a
cat's world is a world of smells
cat psychology is also very interesting
and
sometimes surprising for example these
felines
absolutely hate cucumbers usually the
cat jumps into another corner of the
room in fright and then runs away
these pranks may seem funny but they can
harm the cat's mental health
what is an innocent joke to us is
perceived as a deadly threat by our pets
the stress it causes can lead to anxiety
aggressive behavior
and even ptsd experts say that if cats
become distressed at their food station
they can lose their appetite and this
can lead to some serious liver diseases
so why do cats fear this particular
vegetable so much
the answer is closely related to the
feeding process
look closer all the cat versus cucumber
videos are filmed when the cat is eating
every animal is at its most relaxed
when it's eating when a cat notices
something unusual and potentially
dangerous
it will instantly relocate to a safer
spot
others think that cats perceive
cucumbers as snakes
because of their color and shape so
their first reaction is to
increase their distance from a potential
threat after leaping away
some cats will begin to study their
rival there is a stereotype that all
cats are solitary and slightly selfish
unlike dogs but that's not true if they
were total sociopaths
they just run away from our homes in
fact domestic cats need us as much as we
need them
we don't have the opportunity to study
the behavior of cats in their natural
habitat
because most of them live in our homes
or in cities
the cat's wild ancestor the african
wildcat
doesn't really exist anymore they're all
interbred with domestic cats
so the only way to know more about wild
cats is to study
feral cat populations feral cats live in
groups
these cat colonies exist in places where
there's enough food to eat
for example near barns or garbage dumps
but
unlike domestic cats who know they have
a dedicated place to eat and drink
feral cats still have to hunt for food
wildcats also don't use their voices for
social interaction
instead they use body language meowing
is something only domestic cats do
they learn to meow in order to interact
with us humans
and in my house meows can happen at the
strangest times
how about your cat tell me about it in
the comments